So in our starting project, we want to add a web app manifest and to do that, I opened the project in
Web Storm, the IDE I'm using. Now you can use any editor or IDE you want, such as Visual Studio Code or Atom
or Sublime Text or whatever you like. Simply open that project, this whole folder you downloaded and
extracted in it
and then there, we have the various files, the index.html file in the public folder
and the index.html file in the help folder or in the public folder. Also some source files which we'll dive
into later,
we don't need them for now or to be precise,
some of them are already getting imported in that index.html file.
Now here, we got that simple code which basically generates the page you're viewing,
we're using the material lite library to get beautiful stylings and materially styled components
out of the box.
We wanted to add a web manifest though and a web manifest simply is a file
we add to our root web folder,
so in this case the public folder, the folder containing our index.html file. In there, we simply add
a new file and you have to name this file manifest, one word .json,
so it's a JSON formatted file.
Now as such a file, it starts and ends with curly braces and in-between, we add some properties to
give this file some configuration.
Now I'll come back to the properties in the next lecture,
for now let's make sure that this file gets used in our application. To use it,
we have to go to all pages in our app, so the index.html files in the root folder and in the help
folder, I'll start in the index.html file on the public folder
and there in the head section here,
we have to add a new link and I will add it here at the bottom right at the end of head.
So a new link, however not linking to a stylesheet but instead here, we describe this to be a manifest
and we'll link with the ref attribute to /manifest.json, slash because we refer to the root
folder,
the public folder in this case,
so the root folder where our API is served from
and then there we point to the manifest.json file
and since it directly sits in the root folder, it's just /manifest.json.
Now I'll copy that
and add the same in the index.html file in the help folder here because there, we of course
also want to include the manifest.json because and that's an important take away,
you should add your web app manifest to any page you have in your application.
So if you have a single page application which we don't have here, that's good for you,
you only need to add it to one file but if you have a multi-page application or any application where
you render your views on the server and you have multiple possible views, you need to add that file to
every view, every page you send back from your server.
Why do you need to do that? Because you want to ensure that the browser is able to load that manifest
with your additional configuration, no matter which URL you visit
and obviously if for example a user enters a blog article on your page because he found it on Google,
you want to make sure you still provide that native web app or this progressive web app feeling to him.
So with that, we added the manifest.json file, what can we add inside of it now?